.TH CSVI 1 "June 2025" "csvi" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
csvi \- terminal CSV viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B csvi
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.I FILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B csvi
opens a CSV file in an interactive terminal viewer. Navigate by cell with
arrow keys or
.BR hjkl .
The status bar shows the current row, column, and mode.
.PP
Default appearance is monochrome (reverse video for the selected cell).
Use
.B \-\-color=always
for color when supported.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-separator= \fICHAR\fR
Cell separator character (default: ;).
.TP
.BR \-\-color= \fIMODE\fR
Color mode:
.BR auto ,
.BR never ,
or
.BR always
(default:
.BR auto ).
Respects
.B NO_COLOR
when set.
.TP
.B \-\-grid
Draw vertical column separators.
.TP
.B \-\-header
Freeze row 1 as a header while scrolling.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-verbose
Write diagnostic messages to stderr.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH KEYS
.TP
.B Arrow keys / hjkl
Move one cell.
.TP
.B Home / End
First / last column in the current row.
.TP
.B Ctrl+F / Page Down
Page down.
.TP
.B Ctrl+B / Page Up
Page up.
.TP
.B g / G
First / last row.
.TP
.B :
Enter command mode.
.TP
.B /
Search (substring match in all cells).
.TP
.B ?
Help overlay.
.TP
.B n / N
Next / previous search match.
.TP
.B q
Quit.
.SH COMMANDS
Press
.B :
then type a command (1-based row/column numbers):
.TP
.B :q
Quit.
.TP
.BI :line " N"
Go to row \fIN\fR.
.TP
.BI :col " N"
Go to column \fIN\fR.
.TP
.BI :cell " ROW,COL"
Go to row \fIROW\fR, column \fICOL\fR.
.TP
.B :top / :bottom
First / last row.
.TP
.B :left / :right
First / last column.
.TP
.BI :set " sep=" CHAR
Set separator (reload file to apply).
.TP
.BI :set " header=on|off"
Toggle frozen header row.
.PP
See
.BR Commands.md
in the source tree for the full key map and migration notes for legacy commands.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error.
.TP
.B 3
I/O error (file not found or unreadable).
.SH FILES
.I FILE
CSV file to display.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR less (1),
.BR Commands.md
(in the source tree),
.BR docs/tutorial.md
(getting-started guide)
